REST API with Mongoose

In the previous module, you've built a CRUD RESTful with Express and the native MongoDB Node.js driver (mongodb on npm). However, as you saw in Module 4 Mongoose offers a lot of useful features and benefits compared to the native MongoDB driver. Let's use Mongoose as a database library and ODM for a server.

In this lab, you'll implement a persistent Express REST API server with MongoDB and the Mongoose native driver.

Create a new file server.js which will have the code for the CRUD API which will have four endpoints:

    GET /accounts
    POST /accounts
    PUT /accounts/:id
    DELETE /accounts/:id

Use save(), remove(), find() and findById() Mongoose methods to save, remove and find documents. Define the account schema as having two fields:

  name: String,
  balance: Number

For the Express server, use morgan for request logging, errorhandler for error handling and body-parser for parsing of payloads.

When you are done, be sure to test the endpoints!

You can test your endpoints with the following curl requests:

//posts account data

curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"balance": "1000", "name": "savings"}' "http://localhost:3000/accounts"

//gets account data

curl "http://localhost:3000/accounts"

//updates account data at specific id, NOTE: replace 'id' in "http://localhost:3000/accounts/id" with the id generated by the previous POST command

curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"balance": "1500"}' "http://localhost:3000/accounts/id"

//deletes account data at specific id, NOTE: replace 'id' in "http://localhost:3000/accounts/id" with the id generated by the previous POST command

curl -X DELETE "http://localhost:3000/posts/id"
Submission Instructions

To submit the assignment for feedback, put all the program files into GitHub and post a link to your code repository in the Assignment 4 Submissions section of the forums.

In addition to providing the GitHub link, please also answer the following questions about your project:

1. Walk us through the design of your project. Why did you design your project the way you did? What difficulties did you overcome?

2. How did you test your project to verify that it works? If you used any specific curl requests, let us know.

3. Let us know if anything doesn't work as intended so your reviewers can know ahead of time

A link to the forums submissions section is provided below:

